We just did constraints and now we're
gonna go do another little project.
So one thing before we hopped
too far into the project,
I wanted to to tell you
a little bit about distinct.
So let's say we wanted to do
SELECT DISTINCT * FROM recipe_photos.
Recipes_photos.
I don't have that one,
maybe recipe_ingredients.
And.
And you wanna do an ON (recipe_id).
Okay.
So what DISTINCT does here,
look at these two different queries,
you can basically ignore the top one.
Let me just redo that
without the DISTINCT there.
What DISTINCT does is,
it's gonna find the first incantation
of whatever we're looking at,
so I said ON (recipe_id) here.
So notice that there's
only one recipe_id 1.
There's only one recipe_id 2.
Whereas down here, there's three.
And down here, there's two.
That's what the DISTINCT part does.
Is it basically says, I want the distinct,
interesting one of these.
Or another really useful one of
these would be SELECT DISTNCT.
Type.
From recipe,
no ingredients.
I didn't need the ON because I
wasn't doing anything window funk.
I wasn't looking at other parts of the
tables are just looking at just the type,
which is what this is.
So this tells me all the distinct types
that exist in the ingredients table.
I only have fruit, meat,
vegetable and other.
That's it.
So that's what the distinct keyword
does is it means just give me the all of
the individual distinct
versions that existed that.
All right, whereas if I just do
slick type FROM ingredients.
I'm gonna get a lot of repetition,
all right?
So the distinct classes that down
into just the distinct various items.
So grabbing that and looking at this.
Let's say I wanted to just
get the first photo of every
single item in the database.
I can do SELECT DISTINCT on that
recipe Id like you saw there above.
But this is actually not only going
to give me the first photo instead of
all photos.
So if I do that, notice I only have
one of each of the recipe ids.
All right,
what we did not add back the photos.
So let's go ahead and
do that really quick.
That was in the one to the.
The relationships.
Yeah, so down here.
This one, so you might need to
insert this again, I need to.
So INSERT INTO recipes_photo.
There we go.
So now notice for every single one of
these recipes, I only have one photo.
I have the first cookie,
the first empanada,
the first jollof rice,
the first shakshuka, khachapuri, and
then the xiao long bao,
cuz I did the left join here, all right?
But it doesn't have a photo,
which is fine, we still got it,
even without the photo.
Does that make sense,
what that query is doing?
It's gonna be necessary because I want
you to grab the first primary photo for
each one of these.
And I can actually even show you how to
make this a little bit even prettier.
So let me grab this and
put this over here and
VS code is a little bit easier to read.
So you need the r.title and
the rp.url.
You probably need other things as well,
but I'm just gonna show you these two.
This xiao long bao doesn't have a photo.
Now in my code I could handle that,
all right?
I could say if there's no photo
do a thing, but I can also
have a Postgres do the heavy lifting
here for me and I can say COALESCE.
If it doesn't exist,
then give me default.jpg.
As url.
Pretty sure that should work.
And now you can see, I got cookies I got
empanada, jollof rice, khachapuri and
notice that even though
xiao long bao doesn't have.
I've been seeing that so much today that
I'm my brain is not connecting all of the.
I probably wasn't saying it right in
the first place so it doesn't matter.
Anyway, soup dumplings now
has a default that jpg and
that's what this COALESCE does.
It basically says check this to see if
it's no or no like or something like that.
And if it is no, give me this,
if it's not then just return that and
that's what COALESCE does.
Does that make sense?
Cool.
So that's a nice little trick.
So that you don't have to go in,
check to see is this nulla cross all
of your rows that you're returning.
Okay.
The ON recipe_id means only one of
these is allowed per row, all right?
So I only have one cookie,
one empanada, one jollof rice.
So on and so forth.
There's a bunch of ways
you can solve this.
You technically could solve
all of this with one query.
I actually ended up doing this with two
queries in my completed results because
I felt like it was more clear and
it made more sense.
That is gonna be totally up to you of
how you choose to solve this problem.
It's fine to do multiple
queries in one API request.
In fact, I would even say it's common.
So use your best judgment.
Sometimes writing the biggest weirdest
query is not the best way to get there.
It's better off done in multiple different
queries and faster frequently as well,
all right?
Cuz if you have complex joins, it means
Postgres is doing a lot of work for you.
Sometimes it's not what you want.
I am gonna have you do one thing with me.
So come back here to the project and
I want you to click on this big SQL query
with a bunch of recipes thing right here.
That's gonna download recipes.sql.
I've downloaded a few times Clif,
I make sure to works.
Click on that.
This opens in my VS code.
This might open in a different thing for
you.
All I want you to do is I just
want you to copy Cmd+A, CTRL+COPY,
and then I want you to paste
this into recipe your database.
It's a long query.
So you can see here, I put a lot of stuff
in your table because I want you to have
a lot of recipes and
stuff to draw upon, all right?
But if you want to look at this is
literally everything that you've
done before.
I just put a lot of recipes in here.
Nothing here should be surprising to you.
Yeah, nothing should be surprising.
So now if you say SELECT, just so
COUNT (*) is how you count how
many things are in a table.
FROM recipes, we have 56 recipes.
FROM ingredients We have 126 ingredients.
FROM recipe_ingredients,
we have 170 connections, all right?
So just so the other container that I
provided you that we're gonna use in
the second half just
runs this query exactly.
It's actually literally the same query.
So you can also just use that
other container if you feel more
comfortable with that.
It's up to you.